International Journal of Information & Computation Technology. 
ISSN 0974-2239 Volume 4, Number 9 (2014), pp. 937-940 
© International Research Publications House 
http://www. irphouse.com 
 
 
“Cyber Attacks: An impact on Economy to an organization” 

Hetram yadav1  and Shashant Gour2 

MS Cyber Security,  Sardar Patel University of Police,  

Security & Criminal Justice, Jodhpur1,2 

 
 

 

 
 

 

Abstract 

its 

This paper shows that the Cybercrime is a world scale issue regarding 
economy  because  businesses  that  operate  online  have  to  deal  with 
cyber-crime  one  way  or  another.  The  cost  to  the  economy  loss,  can 
estimated, is significant and likely to be growing. Cyber-attacks are not 
only  affecting  modern  computing  industries  but  also  government 
economy, 
infrastructure  and  conventional  business  also.  It 
emphasisonrequisite  of  cyber  security  in  an  organization.  Cyber-
attacks  causes  billions  of  $  and 
to  an 
organization.Cyber-attacks  have  several  forms  of  attacks  like  DoS, 
information  theft,  database  destruction  and  many  other  forms  that 
adversely  affect  the  economy  differently.The  systematic  study  of  the 
cost  of  cybercrime  recommends  that  society  should  spend  less  on 
antivirus  software  and  more  on  policing  the  internet.We  have 
suggested some solutions by applyingthosean organization can reduce 
economic impact due to cyber-attacks.The results of this study suggest 
that  businesses  need  to  look  again  at  their  defenses  to  determine 
whether their information is indeed well protected. 
Keywords:  Cyber-attack,  DDoS,  Phishing,  Virtual, 
BS7799 

reputational 

ISO27000, 

loss 

 
 
1.  Introduction 
Cyber refers to the characteristics of the culture of computers, Information technology 
(IT) and virtual reality. It includes electronics, digital, internet, web, communication 
networks,  online  services  etc.  Today  in  the  world  of  computers  it  has  become 
essential 
to  move  from 
conventional  computing  system  to  cyber  system.  Thus  we  can  say  that  we  all  are 
surrounded and dependent on continued availability, confidentiality and accuracy of 
Information and Communication Technologies. But there are many vulnerabilities to 
penetrate, attack in cyber systems due to lack of awareness and knowledge in this new 

to  corporate  sectors  and  government  organizations 

 

938  

Hetram yadav and Shashant Gour 

emerging era. Attackers may use different technique to harm a particular organization 
in  different  ways.  It  impacts  an  organization  in  different  ways  like  economically, 
business disruptions etc. Cyber-crime losses about $300 billion to 1 trillion to world’s 
economy  which  is  0.4%  to  1.4%  of  total  GDP[1].  There  is  no  specific  solution  to 
attacks but the awareness and implementation of policies is the best suggestion to this 
growing era.  
 
 
2.  Mostly used Attacking Techniques to Organizations 
1.1.  DDoS:  In  distributed  denial  of  service  attacks  the  attackers  makes  the 
resources unavailable to the legitimate users. The attacker create botnets and 
malware  in  the  networks  and  create  zombie  machines  that  are  remotely 
controlled by the attacker and constantly send request to the server then the 
server gets so busy to avail the services or resources to the intended users. 
According  to  Neustar  survey  over  300  businesses  were  targeted  by  DDoS 
attacks.  Mostly  web  based  industries  such  as  financial  services,  telecom 
services, retail, travel,IT were victimized often. When a website goes down it 
costs upto $10K per hour[2]. 
Business uses web for customer service, direct sales and brand awareness but 
intense  competitor,  angry  customers  or  social  and  political  motivated 
protestors can easily takedown a website lacking adequate protection. 

2.2  Phishing:Phishing  is  an  attempt  to  acquire  vital  information  such  as 
username,  password,  credit  card  details,  pin  code,  account  no,  unique  id 
through  deceiving  as  trust  worthy  entity.  It  can  be  done  by  SMS,  e-mail, 
telecommunication etc. 
As RSA Anti-Fraud Command Center reported the total no of fishing attacks 
was 59% higher than 2011 in 2012.The global losses estimated at $ 1.5 billion 
2012 that was 22% higher than 2011. 

2.3  Social  Engineering:It  is  a  method  to  get  the  critical  information  of 
authentication and identity by social interaction with the intended person. An 
outside  hacker  uses  socio-psychological  tricks  on  important  employee  in 
context to an organization to gain access their system. So in this technique the 
needed information is obtained directly from the person rather than breaking 
into the system without even realizing that they have been manipulated. 

2.4  Data Breach or information loss:It is essential for an organization to store the 
data for fast manipulation, analysis, research, login in electronic form in the 
system. Many times this data is so important to their organization if once it is 
obtained by unauthorized user may loss huge amount. Data can be breached 
either  by  negligence,  malicious  attack  or  system  glitch.  Attacker  can 

 

“Cyber Attacks: An impact on Economy to an organization” 
 

939 

manipulate this data, sell this data or can publish in any way it will harm to 
organization reputation image, trust and  revenue. 
The  largest  breach  that  was  reported  in  December  actually  occurred  during 
November, where 40 million identities were exposed [4].  

2.6 

2.5  Malware:The  malicious  software  installed  in  a  system  is  a  malware.  It  has 
dramatical  abilities  and  it  can  communicate  to  its  originator  in  background 
without the knowledge of system administrator. It is the most powerful tool to 
harm an organization. It can installed by e-mail, downloading attachment and 
sometime by USB or other external devices. 
In public sector 1 e-mail out of 72 in public sector, 163 in education, 218 in 
finance,235 in marketing, 236 in accommodation industry contains a malware 
[3]. 
Insider  Attacks:An  organization  has  a  threat  from  its  own  employees  also. 
The  employees  share  the  sensitive  information  to  outsiders  to  gain  some 
financial benefits or to make the organization in loss. Low level management 
persons  have  least  knowledge  about the  importance  so  unintentionally  they 
share  the  confidential  and  sensitive  data  with  attackers.  Middle  level 
management has full knowledge of the importance of data so it is very simple 
for  them  to  misuse  the  data.  Top  level  management  also  involved  in  data 
share but comparatively lesser than mid-level due to more responsibility. 
Social  Sites:Through  online  social  media  many  other  competitive 
organizations attempt to decrease the reputation, brand. They post or tweets 
negative  propagations  against  an  organization  so  that  it  reduce  the  trust 
among the people.   

2.7 

 
 
3.  Impacts on Organization due to attacks 

1.  Economic:  All  types  of  attacks  results  into  loss  to  the  economy  of  an 

organization. 

2.  Reputational: when a company faces a cyber-attack, it decrease the trust and 
faith among the people and people afraid to invest further in the organization. 
3.  Loss of IP:  Sometimes the Intellectual Property of an organization like patent, 

copyright trade secret is theft which causes a huge loss. 

4.  Loss  of  sensitive  business  information:  The  data  that  has  value  in  worth  of 
money should be preserve but loss of such data harm to the organization as it 
can be used by the competitors. 

5.  Lack of Trust: Once a organization faces an cyber-attack then customers does 
not feel safe with that organization. It compel its customers to move on other 
services.  

 

940  

Hetram yadav and Shashant Gour 

6.  Business Disruption/ Lost Sales: Due do different types of attacks business or 
sales  also  affected.  In  denial  of  service  attack  customers  cannot  get  the 
services so it makes loss to the organization in a very short period of time. 

7.  Equipment  Loss:  Sometimes  the  malwares  destroy  whole  the  networking 

equipments so organization have to spend a lot of money to reinstall them. 

8.  Stock  Prices:  Attacker  may  interpret  the  stock  prices  of  the  organization  to 

reduce the value and image of the particular organization by using malwares. 
 
 

4.  Recommendation to reduce the economic impacts on an 

organization due to cyber -attacks 
1.  Human Resource of an organization should  be trained time to time to make 

awareness about the latest attacking technique. 

2.  An organization  should  implement cyber security standards  like ISO 27001, 

BS 7799 etc to confirm the security. 

3.  Data Loss Prevention (DLP) tools also be used to monitor the data flow. 
4.  At the time of recruitment background and the reason  for  joining should  be 

interviewed. 

5.  To prevent the DDoS attacks the session time should be as small as possible. 
6.  There is a myth that a small organization need not to implement cyber security 
standards due to cost factors but eventually it losses them higher than the cost 
to implement the security.  

7.  All the hardware and software used in the organization should be standardized 

and according to own parameters. 

[1]  The  Economic  Impacts  of  Cyber  Crime  and  Cyber  Espionage  report  by 

[2]  Nuestar-insights DDoS attacks survey q1-2012. 
[3]  Symantec intelligence report 2013.  
[4]  Internet Security Threat Report- Symantec 2013. 
[5]  Cyber  Crime  Protecting  against  the  growing  threat  PwC's  sixth  global 

surveyMarch 2012 Vol. 256. 

 
 
References 
 

McAfee. 

 
 
 
 

 

