Cybersecurity Experts from Elite Israeli-Intel Launch Cybereason 

Delivers Protection from Malops to Stop Hacker Operations in Real Time 

 

 

 

●  How Hacking Operations Work video: http://ow.ly/tkm88 
●  Malop market brief: http://ow.ly/toTUq 
●  Cybereason slide show: http://ow.ly/toUyr 

 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — February 11, 2014 — Cybereason Inc. today emerges from 
stealth mode with the launch of an innovative technology platform to proactively detect and 
terminate Malops™ — malicious operations perpetrated by sophisticated hackers carrying 
out cybercrimes within enterprises. The Cybereason Platform delivers protection from 
Malops by automatically detecting the hacker’s actions and intentions through continuous 
monitoring of systems across the enterprise. This empowers CISOs and security analysts to 
proactively identify and eradicate Malops in real time. See the “How Hacking Operations 
Work” video at https://vimeo.com/85874023. 
 
Founded by elite members of the Israeli intelligence agency, the company has built the 
Cybereason Platform from its deep knowledge and first-hand expertise in cracking and 
reverse engineering the world’s most complex hacking operations. Cybereason has raised 
$4.6 million in Series A funding from Charles River Ventures (CRV) to execute its go-to-
market strategy. 
 
“CRV has a history of backing industry-defining companies. The Cybereason team brings a 
unique approach and fresh insights to a market that today doesn’t have effective solutions and 
where the damage is measured in many billions of dollars. Cybereason is positioned to lead 
the industry in addressing cyberattacks in the most effective way, and in doing so, define a 
new market,” said Izhar Armony, partner at Charles River Ventures. 
 
A New Approach to Cybersecurity 
 
Concentrating resources and spend on adversaries or malware has been ineffective. Tracking 
actions and intent is critical to uncovering cyberattacks in real time, before damage. 
Cybereason has defined a new approach by detecting Malops that comprise distinct phases 
within hacking operations with intermediate goals. This approach fills the gap between 
penetration and damage by continuously monitoring the IT infrastructure, visually describing 
the Malops in context and enabling security analysts to stop the hacking operation. For more 
details, see the Malop market brief at www.cybereason.com/press/malop_market_brief.pdf. 
 
“Part of the answer to the seemingly insurmountable problem of how to identify attacks 
without signature-based mechanisms lies in pervasive monitoring to identify meaningful 
deviations from normal behavior to infer malicious intent. If you assume systems will be 
compromised with advanced targeted threats, then information security efforts need to shift to 
detailed, pervasive and context-aware monitoring to detect these threats,” wrote Neil 
MacDonald, vice president, distinguished analyst and Gartner fellow emeritus at Gartner Inc. 
in his report, Prevention is Futile in 2020: Protect Information Via Pervasive Monitoring and 
Collective Intelligence.1 
                                                 
1 Gartner, Prevention Is Futile in 2020: Protect Information Via Pervasive Monitoring and Collective 
Intelligence, Neil MacDonald, May 30, 2013 

 

 

 
Cybereason Founding Team and Expertise 
 
“As a result of the forensic expertise of the Cybereason team, this software’s ability to detect 
and intuitively display malicious activity without relying on predetermined signatures is by 
far one of the most exciting recent advancements I’ve seen in the information security space,” 
said Vanessa Pegueros, deputy CISO at DocuSign. 
 
The Cybereason founding team brings a unique and powerful set of skills and a different way 
of thinking about cybercrime based on years of analyzing and executing against hacker 
operations and bringing enterprise security products to market. Lior Div, co-founder and 
chief executive officer, received the Medal of Honor from the head of the Intelligence Corps 
for his work. He is an expert in the fields of hacking operations, forensics, reverse 
engineering and malware analysis, cryptography and evasion. Yonatan Striem-Amit, co-
founder and chief technology officer, is a recognized security expert in machine learning, big 
data analytics and visualization technologies. Yossi Naar, co-founder and chief vision 
officer, is an accomplished software architect with extensive experience designing security 
platforms for the defense industry as well as big data platforms for search engine marketing. 
 
Cybereason Platform 
 
Cybereason’s platform discerns anomalies and distinguishes between the benign and the 
pernicious. The system collects specific information and combines analysis of big data 
algorithms along with proprietary knowledge enriched with external databases and 
intelligence. With powerful visual reconstruction of cyberattacks, Cybereason allows the 
experienced and novice users to understand the context of the attack and react quickly and 
effectively. 
 
“As the frequency and sophistication of attacks facing organizations increases, relying on 
incident response teams to understand and prevent them from spreading in early phases can 
be futile; an automated technology approach like Cybereason’s is better suited to help in the 
early detection of the most insidious attacks, especially as they are first spreading across 
endpoints and the network,” said René Bonvanie, CMO at Palo Alto Networks. 
 
The Cybereason Platform has been deployed in several early access sites in the United States 
and Israel, successfully identifying the most advanced and targeted attacks, such as Flame, 
Doqu and Stuxnet; reconstructing their impact, spread and behavior; and enabling the 
shutdown of Malops. 
 
“Cybereason addresses advanced targeted attacks at multiple levels,” said Jon Oltsik, senior 
principal analyst at Enterprise Strategy Group. “Cybereason combines its experience, 
security, visualization and automation expertise with big data security analytics to help 
customers detect and respond to hacking operations. This increases the efficiency of highly 
skilled security analysts and enables less-experienced security analysts to triage Malop 
response.” 
 
About Cybereason Inc. 
 
Cybereason delivers a proprietary technology platform that automatically uncovers malicious 
operations (Malops™) and reconstructs them as a clear image of a cyberattack in context. 

 

This enables enterprises to discover sophisticated targeted threats at a very early stage, 
disrupt them at the stem and significantly reduce the costs and damages caused by such 
attacks. Cybereason is headquartered in Cambridge, MA with offices in Tel Aviv, Israel. For 
more information, please visit www.cybereason.com, www.twitter.com/Cybereason, 
www.facebook.com/Cybereason, and www.linkedin.com/company/Cybereason. 
 

 
Cybereason, Malop and Malops are trademarks of Cybereason Inc. All other brand names and product names 
are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. 
 
Tags: Cybereason, Malop, cybersecurity, cybercrime, cyberattacks, malicious operations, hacker, reverse 
engineering, infosec, security, enterprise security, malware, incident response, advanced persistent threat, APT, 
CISO, CSO, security analyst, big data, analytics, visualization, Malops, hacking, cyber security, cracking, 
Charles River Ventures, Gartner, DocuSign, Palo Alto Networks, Enterprise Strategy Group  
 
Media Contact:  
 
Dottie O’Rourke 
TECHMarket Communications 
(650) 344-1260 
Cybereasonteam@TECHMarket.com  
 

### 

 

 

