Police have opened 22 murder cases in the deaths and an inquest is being held into the 23rd death, of a youth who complained of stomach pains and vomited. Initiation ceremonies are common in South Africa, where youths partake in various activities as a rite of passage into adulthood, usually over the course of three weeks. In addition to being circumcised, the boys and young men are put through a series of survival tests which sometimes include exposure to South Africa's chilly winter conditions with skimpy clothing.

Elsewhere, Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has allegedly been filmed smoking crack but has denied the authenticity of the video, a cup of coffee led to the murder arrest of "Kai the hatchet-wielding hitchhiker", another tourist has been killed by alcohol spiked with methanol in Indonesia, a woman has been accused of falsely claiming to have been raped and also faking cancer, O.J. Simpson's former lawyer has denied being involved in the hotel robbery that landed the former football star in jail, police have identified "persons of interest" in the disappearance of Madeleine McCann and former Argentine dictator Jorge Videla has died in prison.

The US Powerball jackpot has now reached $US600 million, Yahoo! is reportedly looking to snap up Tumblr, this weekend marks a year since Facebook's IPO flop, EU officials are looking for ways to respond faster to financial crises, US politicians have lashed out at someone more unpopular than them – the head of the tax-collecting IRS, and dissident artist Ai Weiwei has mapped out China's demand for baby formula in his new exhibit.

"Ruby the Heart Stealer" has testified about Silvio Berlusconi's 'bunga bunga' parties, NZ cops have been told their days of discounted McDonald's are over, zookeepers are puzzled over how an anteater gave birth as she hadn't been in contact with a male in a long while, European restaurants will no longer be allowed to serve olive oil in refillable bottles, Prague is instituting a "Love Train" which will only pick up single passengers, and Sega icon Sonic the Hedgehog is rolling over to Nintendo.

At the Cannes Film Festival, a man has fired shots from a gun loaded with blanks during a press event, $1 million of jewellery meant for the festival has been stolen from a safe and Nicole Kidman's Oscar campaign has started. Also, E! News says it's sure Beyonce is pregnant, Rihanna is suing Topshop for $5 million, George Michael has been hurt in a car crash, Justin Bieber has just hours to reclaim his monkey, the actor who plays Pete Campbell on Mad Men has been cast as Mr Darcy, and a theatre critic smashed a mobile phone against a wall after he became irate at the woman who wouldn't stop using it during a show.

In sport, Andrew Strauss says Kevin Pietersen may be the key to the upcoming Ashes series, Ross Taylor has given New Zealand the upper hand in England's current Test series, Alex Ferguson is seeking a win in his 1500th and final game as Manchester United manager, Tomas Berdych has upset Novak Djokovic at the Rome Masters, Mark Cavendish has won back-to-back stages at the Giro d'Italia and Fabian Coulthard clocked the fastest in opening practice for the V8 races in Austin, with Mark Skaife giving weight to suggestions Chrysler will join the championship next year.