Muscat: Oman Air, the national carrier of the Sultanate, has entered a codeshare partnership with Ethiopian Airlines, the national carrier of Ethiopia in the Muscat and Addis Ababa sector, which will offer a greater range of options for customers of the two airlines.

This codeshare agreement will cover flights between the Omani capital of Muscat and the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa, according to an Oman Air press release. The service will be operated using Ethiopian Airlines aircraft and will build on the airline's schedule of four flights per week between the two cities. It will be marketed by Oman Air.

"We are delighted to be joining hands with Ethiopian Airlines to offer our passengers even more options and more convenience than ever before. With the signing of this new codeshare, seamless travel via Muscat to Ethiopia from any of Oman Air's many destinations across the Middle East, Europe, and Asia has become convenient and easy, giving customers even more opportunities to see the world and to experience Oman Air's legendary hospitality," said Wayne Pearce, chief executive of Oman Air. "The codeshare also expands the range of choices available to those travelling from Ethiopia, who can now fly via Muscat to any of Oman Air's 42 global destinations.

"On behalf of Oman Air, I would like to express my appreciation to Ethiopian Airlines; we look forward to a strong and rewarding partnership that offers tangible benefits to the customers of both companies.

"Ethiopian Airlines continually works to enhance the connectivity options of its passengers. The codeshare agreement with Oman Air gives our passengers more flight options as well as a convenient and hassle-free connection to points to which Ethiopian Airlines doesn't fly directly. It also affords Oman Air customers the benefit of Ethiopian Airline's extensive network in Africa, currently covering 60 cities on the continent," added Tewolde Gebremariam, chief executive of Ethiopian Airlines.

"On behalf of Ethiopian Airlines, I wish to thank Oman Air and to convey our readiness to work hard to enable our customers to reap strong benefits from this partnership."

Set at the foot of Mount Entoto, 2,300 metres above sea level, Addis Ababa is often referred to as the 'capital of Africa' because of its historical, diplomatic, and political significance.

With its wealth of palaces, cathedrals, and mosques, as well as being home to Africa's largest open market, the city is an ideal starting point for the exploration of Ethiopia's rich and ancient culture. Home to more than 2.7 million people, the city is also an important business hub for Ethiopians and hosts the headquarters of the African Union and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa.