Kony is accused of ordering widespread atrocities during a brutal campaign for power that originated in Uganda in the 1980s. He is now believed to be hiding in the Central African Republic.

The LRA, a Ugandan rebel group, has waged a brutal insurgency, accused of mutilations and child abductions for two decades across four countries.

Kony - a self-proclaimed prophet who claims his rebels are fighting to establish a government based on the Biblical Ten Commandments - and other LRA leaders face charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court.

Kony's name was added to the State Department's war crimes rewards program along with fellow LRA members Okot Odhiambo and Dominic Ongwen, and Sylvestre Mudacumura from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), in the hopes that the men would be brought to justice.

The LRA "for almost 20 years has tormented and terrorized children across Uganda, the DRC, the Central African Republic and South Sudan. It has to stop," US Secretary of State John Kerry said.

But he admitted Kony and his cronies would "not be easy to find."

"The LRA is broken down into small bands of rebels, scattered throughout dense jungle, hidden by dense canopy, controlling territory through tactics of fear and intimidation," he said in a column in the online Huffington Post.

The United Nations says about 450,000 people have been displaced by LRA attacks in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic, Uganda and South Sudan.

US President Barack Obama last year renewed a mission by 100 US special forces, first launched in 2011, to help Ugandan troops scour the African jungles for Kony, but it has had no success so far.

In the past two years, Washington's rewards program has made 14 payments of an average of $400,000 per person with the largest payment being $2 million.

But Mr Kerry stressed "this is not a dead-or-alive bounty program."

"Information must lead to the secure arrest, transfer, or conviction of these people in a court of law. We want these men to look into the eyes of their victims and answer for their actions."